Welcome back I hope you had fun building your scatterplot in this video.
I'll walk you through my approach to a solution.
As you can see my app jast doesn't have much going on as I often do when dealing with SPG.
Let me start by creating some variables for the width height and padding.
I think you'll find that most of this code looks really similar to what we saw when we were first learning
about scatterplot and axes.
The biggest difference has to do with how I filter my data.
I'm interested in a relationship between four variables cellular subscribers literacy rate median age
and urban population rate.
Therefore if a country doesn't have data on one of these variables I want to remove it from my dataset
in order to remove incomplete objects from my data set.
I'll first write a small helper function called must have keys this function will take in an object
and will check whether the object has values for each of the four keys I'm interested in to do this
a loop through my array of keys and check whether the value for that key in my object is null.
If it is I'll return false.
But if the object has non-null values for each of these keys I'll return TRUE cool.
Next I'll use this helper function by calling filter on the region data passing in this helper and storing
the results in a variable called data or data variable will consist only of regions that have data on
each of the four variables.
I'm interested in.
It looks like this is working region data has 195 elements in it but data only has 146 elements OK.
Let's keep going.
Next I'll set up my scales as you may remember.
I want to measure literacy rate on the x axis and cell subscribers on the y axis.
So for the x axis I'll create a linear scale inside of the domain.
I'll use D-3 dot extent to find the smallest and largest literacy rates.
Since these values should be mapped to the SPG bounds in the Range method pass in an array.
It starts from padding and goes up to with minus padding r y scale will look pretty similar.
Let me copy and paste the scale.
I'll just need to make a few adjustments.
Most importantly I'll change the variable name then I'll change the key.
I'm interested in inside of the callback to 3Com extent.
Finally I'll change the range so that I'm referencing the height.
I'll also do the same trick we've seen before and flip.
The largest and smallest values so the smallest data point gets mapped to the lowest part of the SPG
as I mentioned before.
I'm also interested in visualizing a couple more variables.
I'll use the radius to visualize the median age and I'll use the fill to visualize the proportion of
a region that lives in an urban area.
So I need two more scales one for each of these variables.
Again these scales will look very similar to the ones we've already made.
We'll need to change the variable names and the callbacks we pass and D-3 that extent will also need
to change the range for the radius scale I'll go from 5 to 30 per the fill scale.
I'll go from green to blue enough with the set up.
Let's plot some circles since I'll need to reference it in a few places.
I'll start by selecting the SPG with D-3 and storing the selection in a variable while I'm here.
I'll set the squeegees width and height next.
Let's apply our common D-3 pattern to add circles to the page from the SPG.
I'll select all circles join my data.
Hop into the enter selection append circles and then set attributes for the C-x C.Y. are and fill attributes.
I've already built the scales so I just need to use them inside of the callbacks to after while I'm
here I'll also give each circle a white stroke so that it's easier to spot circles when they overlap.
OK let's refresh the page nice.
There are calls.
We're not finished yet though.
I still need to add some labels and axes.
This pattern should look basically the same as in the earlier video on axes to start.
I'll create a variable called x axis and store three axis as its value.
I'll pass the X scale and the D-3 that access bottom then set the text size it is using text size and
text size outer next I'll do almost the same thing for the y axis.
The only differences are that I'll use the Y scale a left axis and the size will depend on the width
not the height while I'm working on text.
Let me also briefly add a style to the CSSA file so that my grid lines won't just be black lines great.
Now let's append these axes to the page for the X-axis.
I'll grab the SPG append a new group transform it so that it's at the bottom of the SPG and then call
the X axis next.
I'll do something similar for the y axis though I'll need to transform it a bit differently.
OK that's it for the axes.
Lastly let's add some text labels for the x axis.
I'll add a text label.
Move it to the bottom middle of the SPG.
Bump it down just a little bit with the D-y attribute Center attacks and add label next for the y axis
or append a text element.
Rotate it adjust its location center the element and then add some under-taxed getting the y axis label
in the right position is a little tricky.
So don't worry if this takes a couple of tries.
Lastly I'll add a title once again.
I'll append a text label and place it this time at the top middle of the SPG.
I'll bump up the font size of it and then add a title saving refresh
awesome.
There is my completed scatterplot.
If you're curious about visualizing other relationships feel free to pick a different collection of
variables.
In this case it looks like there's a small positive association between cell subscriptions and literacy
rates.
But it also looks like there's a positive association between literacy rates and median age as well
as literacy rates in urban population.
I can tell that this is true because circles at the right end of the scatterplot tend to be larger and
bluer.
I hope this video is helpful when you're ready.
Let's start learning about histograms together.
I'll see you in the next video.